---
layout: post
title: Homepage
order: 6
---

Now to develop the homepages! I want a main homepage along with a couple other pages for the links in the menu bar.

## 1. Create a Pages Controller
Create a new file in your `app/controllers` folder called `pages_controller.rb`. My site has a homepage, membership page, rewards page, and mission page. All of these pages are defined in the controller like so:
```
class PagesController < ApplicationController
  def homepage
  end

  def membership
  end

  def rewards    
  end

  def mission
  end
end
```

## 2. Create HTMl Pages
For each of the functions in the controller, we need an HTML page that it renders. Rails does magic to link and know that the name of the controller and method is where the html file should be. So In our `app/views/` folder, create a new `pages` folder. Inside of this new `pages` folder create 4 new html files with names that match the functions. For example: `app/views/pages/homepage.html.erb`. Inside each HTML page put some text so you can verify the page is working.

## 3. Create Routes
Now that we have a controller with methods and HTML pages, let's set up the routes. Inside of your `config/routes.rb`, add the following code to connect the controller method to GET Urls:
```
root to: 'pages#homepage'
get '/membership' => 'pages#membership', as: :pages_membership
get '/rewards' => 'pages#rewards', as: :pages_rewards
get '/mission' => 'pages#mission', as: :pages_mission
```
The first line, `root to` makes sure that `/` is set to your homepage. The other lines explicitly ask for the url extention, then route it to the function in your pages controller. Using the `as:` keyword, you can set up special ruby paths that are easily called using `pages_membership_path` which is translated to `/membership`

## 4. Update Header
Lastly, we need to update the links in the nav menu so that they point to the new routes we just created. Inside the shared header file, replace the anchor tags with ruby link_to tag:
```
<li><%= link_to("Membership", pages_membership_path) %></li>
<li><%= link_to("Rewards", pages_rewards_path) %></li>
<li><%= link_to("Mission", pages_mission_path) %></li>
```
Also update the link connected to your logo so that it always links back to your homepage.
```
<a href="/" class="logo">
```

## 5. Test!
Start your rails server and checkout your localhost. Click around on the menu buttons and you should see the text from your new pages show up.

Next, we'll talk about how we can implement rspec and start automated tests.
