---
layout: post
title: Stripe
order: 11
---

Last night, the addict inside came out. I stayed up until 3AM programming trying to implement Stripe in the app and create the subscription flow on carts. I also created an admin home page that showed the index and show pages for users and carts. I got a lot done and now it's time to reflect!

## Subscription Flow

I set up a cart model and created a new cart on the start method. In order to not be creating a new cart every time the page loads, I need to start using cookies to store the cart_id on the browser. On the start route, if the cookie exists, get the cart. If the cart has not been purchased, use that cart. Additionally may check to verify that if `current_user.blank?` then to make sure that the cookie's cart is also not attached to a user.

I set up a free stripe account and created prices for the preset options of the house offset. In the future, the manual options will need to create a new price. If we want stripe to show the pricing allocation to different projects, we will need to set up new products for each project. Think of Stripe's Price model as different various types of plans.

In the calculate post method, I retrieve the user's response and look for the price that it corresponds to. I want to make sure that a customer can only have 1 price per cart. So in the case that they go back and resubmit, the item is replaced instead of multiple cart items being added.

I also need to figure out how the number of certificates/price is calculated versus the actual number of carbon in metric tons that correlates to. And finish up the manual input step.

The page for the results works but is not pretty. Also need to update this.

There are a couple options for the account page after the user makes a new account
* login the user
* do not login the user, but pass user_id throughout flow and log them in at the end
* make the new customer login themselves
The new account page also does not yet ask for address, birthday, or referral code. I think I'd like to look at other subscription flows to see how best to design this

I also need to set up the final checkout step which integrates the stripe view.

## Sync
I wrote a script that syncs the stripe products and prices. I will want to make this more automated somehow. I will definitely set up stripe webhooks, but would also like to do the syncing more regularly. Also want to make sure that dev, staging, and production can all be synced with ease.

## Admin
I set up [bootstrap-table-rails](https://github.com/bjevanchiu/bootstrap-table-rails) so that my admin tables would look pretty and be easily sortable. I also had to include the [jquery-rails gem](https://github.com/rails/jquery-rails). In order to get this to work, I had to remove the `turbolinks` call in `application.js` and add the require calls for `jquery` and `bootstrap-table/bootstrap-table`. I also had to require `bootstrap-table/bootstrap-table` in my `application.css` file.

## Top Priorities
1. Results page - figure out how many metric tons of carbon each option is and finish making results page pretty.
2. Footer - every page needs a footer
3. Cookies for cart and only product type per cart
4. Checkout step (new stripe sub, invoice, webhook)
5. Syncing stripe data
6. Welcome page and dashboard page
