---
layout: post
title: Rspec
order: 9
---

Today we are going to add the [RSpec-Rails Gem](https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails) to our project. I prefer using Rspec over the default Minitest because I think the tests are easier to set up and read. I also use the gem [Factory Bot](https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_bot) to create factory test objects.

## Add the Gems
Add the two gems to your Gemfile under the test and development section
```
group :development, :test do
  gem 'rspec-rails'
  gem "factory_bot_rails"
  ...
end
```
Then run `bundle install`. Next, to install rails, run this in the terminal
```
rails generate rspec:install
```

## Implement Factory Bot
Add a file in a new folder called `spec/support/factory_bot.rb` and add the following code. This sets up a configuration file for factory bot.
```
RSpec.configure do |config|
  config.include FactoryBot::Syntax::Methods
end
```
Next import this file into your `rails_helper` file like so:
```
require 'support/factory_bot'
```

## Configure RSpec
Add this line to your spec helper at the top
```
require File.expand_path("../../config/environment", __FILE__)
```

## Write Specs
### Page Loads
The first type of spec I will write today is to make sure that all routes in the pages controller are working.

Make sure that each spec file has this at the top `require 'rails_helper'`. Next to initialize the spec start with the `describe` keyword. My PagesController spec looks like this:
```
require 'rails_helper'

describe PagesController do
  context "page loads" do
    it "homepage" do
      get :homepage
      expect(response).to have_http_status(:ok)
    end

    ...
  end
end
```
To test that the homepage is loading, I call the homepage route, then expect the response status to be a 200. I repeat this process for the other pages in my pages controller.

### Authentication
Now that we have devise set up and a dashboard and admin page, we want to test to make sure that only admin users can access the admin page. In order to do this we need to create fake user objects using the FactoryBot gem.

#### User Factory
Lets create our first factory object. Create a new file called `spec/factories/users.rb`. This is where all the different types of user factories will be stored. Right now this is the only information the file needs:
```
FactoryBot.define do
  factory :user do
    sequence(:email) { |n| "#{n}@example.com" }
    password { "test123" }
  end
end
```
#### Admin Controller Spec
Now we can write tests to verify that the admin controller is working correctly. Create a new file called `spec/controllers/admin_controller_spec.rb` and add the following information to start"
```
require 'rails_helper'

describe AdminController do
  before do
    @user = create(:user)
    allow(controller).to receive(:current_user).and_return(@user)
  end
  ...
end
```
The `before do` block allows us to set up factory user and then tell the controller to return our new user every time `current_user` is called. Next we can test the response of the `:admin` route by setting up our test like this:
```
it "test x" do
  get :admin
  expect(response).to have_http_status(:redirect)
  expect(controller).to redirect_to(new_user_session_path)
end
```
For the different types of response we can check if the http_status is `:redirect` or `:ok`, then if it is a redirect, we can verify what path the controller redirected to.

If we want to test authenticated responses, we need to sign_in our user to devise for the test. To do this call a before_do loop
```
before do
  sign_in(@user)
end

```
Lastly, to check for admin users we can mock the `admin?` function. In the future we will create a new admin factory
```
allow(@user).to receive(:admin?).and_return(true)
```

I have the following tests for my AdminController
* customer, unauthenticated = redirect to login page
* customer, authenticated = redirect to dashboard page
* admin, unauthenticated = redirect to login page
* admin, authenticated = 200 status
